This is Jockel Podcast number 101.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
Second Lieutenant Bernard Wilfrid Long was a smart young man
who went to Birmingham University at age of 16.
Back in 1912.
He was commissioned in the West Yorkshire Regiment
in January of 1916.
And Bernard or burn, as his family called him,
served in World War I in France.
And he wrote this letter to his father in early August of 1916.
He said,
we've been having it awfully wet here during the last day or two.
And my word, talk about mud.
It's simply awful.
I get into mud up to my knees.
I can take a sporting risk as well as any of them.
And shells have got no fear for me.
I've seen great big burly chaps who do nothing but curse and drink
and get down and pray like a child when there's a bombardment on.
And they don't care who sees them and no one dares to joke about it.
I've just heard from a palamine from Brockton who went down to the som
when I came here and he says he's been over the lids seven times
in attacks on the boge line.
Pretty awful that, isn't it?
And I marvel. He's alive to tell the tale.
He wrote another letter to his mother on August 11, 1917.
I am off by an early train tomorrow for the rest of Bill.
It's behind the firing line where we shall be for a time to get to know our men.
Etc.
I am going up with two pals and we are all pleased.
I shall think of you all while I'm up there and know you won't forget me.
We're fighting hard now and it's a serious game.
We're already to lay down everything if need be.
And if God wills, I'm ready.
So goodbye and wish me luck.
You're loving son, burn.
And second lieutenant Bernard Wilford Long was killed in action at age 21.
At the Battle of Langmark on August 16, 1917,
400 men from his battalion went into action.
All 10 of the officers from the battalion died along with 264 of the men.
On September 11, 1918,
there's another young man, Sergeant David Kerr, an American who dropped out of Columbia University to fight in World War I.
He sent a letter to his mother the day before the attack on St. Miel in France.
And he wrote, tomorrow the first totally American drive commences and it gives me inexpressible joy and pride to know that I shall be present to do my share.
Should I go under, therefore, I want you to know that I went without any terror of death.
And that my chief worry is the grief, my death will bring to those so dear to me.
Since having found myself and Mary, there has been much to make life sweet and glorious.
But death, while this tasteful, is in no way terrible.
I feel wonderfully strong to do my share well.
And for my sake, you must try to drown your sorrow in the pride and satisfaction.
The knowledge that I died well and so clean a cause as his arms should bring you.
Remember how proud I have always been of your superb pluck.
Keep Elizabeth's future in mind and don't permit my death to bow your head.
My personal belongings will all be sent to you.
Your good taste will tell you which to send to Mary.
May God bless and keep you dear heart and be kind to little Elizabeth and those others I loved so well.
David, the end.
And while the Americans actually broke through the German lines in the attack,
they suffered 7,000 casualties in 72 hours of fighting and 20 year old David Kerr was among the dead.
And that attitude that attitude where death is not feared.
We can find examples of it in so many different places.
A great example is from the American Civil War,
from a man by the name of Sullivan, Baloo.
Now, after the Battle at Fort Sumper, in 1861, President Lincoln called on the states to form up militia troops to put down the rebellion.
And Sullivan Baloo, who was born in Rhode Island, was one of those volunteers.
And he was commissioned a major in the second Rhode Island Infantry Regiment.
He was third in command.
And the second Rhode Island Infantry Regiment moved to Washington and joined the Union Army of Northeastern Virginia.
And on the 14th of July 1861, from Washington, Sullivan wrote his wife a letter.
And here are some excerpts from that letter.
My very dear Sarah, the indications are very strong that we shall move in a few days, perhaps tomorrow.
Last I should not be able to write you again.
I feel impelled to write lines that may fall under your eye when I shall be no more.
Our movement may be one of a few days duration and full of pleasure.
And it may be one of severe conflict and death to me.
Not my will, but vine, oh God, be done.
If it is necessary that I should fall in the battlefield for my country, I am ready.
I have no misgivings about, or lack of confidence in the cause in which I am engaged, and my courage does not halt or falter.
I know how strongly American civilization now leans upon the triumph of the government, and how great a debt we owe to those who went before us through the blood and suffering of the revolution.
And I am willing, perfectly willing, to lay down all my joys in this life, to help maintain this government, and to pay that debt.
But my dear wife, when I know that with my own joys, I lay down nearly all of yours, and replace them in this life with cares and sorrows.
When, after having eaten for long years the bitter fruit of orphanage myself, I must offer it as their only sustenance to my dear little children.
Is it weak or dishonorable, while the banner of my purpose floats calmly and proudly in the breeze that my unbounded love for you, my darling wife and children, should struggle and fierce, though useless, contest with my love of country?
I cannot describe to you my feelings on this calm summer night when 2,000 men are sleeping around me. Many of them enjoying their last perhaps before that of death.
And I, suspicious that death is creeping behind me with his fatal dart and communing with God, my country, and you.
From my love for you is deathless, it seems to bind me to you with mighty cables that nothing but the omnipotence could break.
Then yet, my love of country comes over me like a strong wind and bears me irresistibly on with these chains to the battlefield.
The memories of blissful moments I've spent with you come creeping over me. And I feel most gratified to God and to you that I've enjoyed them so long.
And hard it is for me to give them up and burn to ashes, the hopes of future years when God willing we might still have lived and love together and seen our sons grow up honorable to manhood around us.
And I know but few small claims upon divine providence but something whispered to me. Perhaps it is wafted, perhaps it is the wafted prayer of my little Edgar that I shall return to my loved ones unharmed.
I do not my dear Sarah, never forget how much I love you. And when my last breath escapes me on the battlefield, it will whisper your name.
Forgive my many faults in the many pains I have caused you. How fottless and foolish I have oftentimes been, how gladly would I wash out with my tears every little spot upon your happiness and struggle with all the misfortune of this world to shield you and my children from harm.
But I cannot, I must watch you from the spirit land and hover near you while you buff at the storms with your precious little freight and wait with sad patience till we meet to part no more.
Oh Sarah, if the dead can come back to this earth and flit unseen around those they love I shall always be near you. In the garish day and in the darkest night amidst your happiest scenes and gloomiest hours always.
And if there be a soft breeze upon your cheek it shall be my breath or if cool air fans your throbbing temple it shall be my spirit passing by.
Sarah do not mourn me dead think I am gone and wait for thee for we shall meet again. As for my little boys they will grow as I have done and never know a father's love and care.
Little Willie is too young to remember me long and my blue eye to Edgar will keep my frolics with him amongst the dimmest memories of his childhood.
Sarah I have unlimited confidence in your maternal care and your development of their characters.
I call God's blessing upon them. Oh Sarah I wait for you there.
And lead to me and lead thither my children Sullivan.
And on July 21st 1861 the regiment took part in the first battle of bull run.
And as one of the senior officers Sullivan went in front on horse back to direct his men and he was hit by a cannon ball that tore off his right leg and also killed his horse.
And he died from his wound a week after the battle while the prisoner of the Confederate army at age 32.
And again an individual obviously prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice. And we know that the enemy can be equally prepared to die.
Clearly from the Kamakaze pilots from Japan in World War II. One of those young Kamakaze pilots was named Yukiyo Araki.
And he was a member of the 72nd Shinbu Squadron. And he wrote this letter Dear Father and Mother.
I trust you and my brothers are doing well recently.
It has been decided that I will go at last to take part in the Battle of Okinawa as a member of the Special Attack Forces.
I am deeply moved. I only look forward to sinking a ship with a single blow.
When I look back I apologize for not being devoted to you in any way for some ten years to this day.
Through teaching by various senior officers after I entered the army I now devote myself to my country as a Special Attack Force member.
Please find pleasure in your desire for my loyalty to the Emperor and devotion to parents.
I have no regrets. I just go forward on my path.
I ask that you teach my three brothers so they can serve our country as noble airmen.
I sincerely hope that you take good care of yourselves and make strunnures efforts on the home front.
Please give my regards to all my relatives and to everyone in the neighborhood association.
Sayonara.
Yukiyo Araki.
And he did indeed die at the age of 17 in the suicide attack on American ships near Okinawa on May 27, 1945.
And the Japanese also imposed their willingness to die on their people.
And here is a description of that brutal imposition from American sailors from the Journal of an American Sailor named James Fahey,
who served on the USS Montpire in the Pacific.
And this is what he wrote on November 10, 1943.
This afternoon we came across a raft with four live japs in it.
As the destroyer Spence came close to the raft, the japs opened up with machine gun at the destroyer.
The jap officer then put the gun in each man's mouth and fired,
blowing out the back of each man's skull.
One of the japs did not want to die for the Emperor and put up a struggle.
The others held him down.
The officer was the last to die.
He also blew his brains out.
The Spence went into investigate.
All the bodies had disappeared into the water.
There was nothing left but blood at an empty raft.
Swarms of sharks everywhere.
The sharks ate well today.
We went to battle stations.
And at 10pm we were attacked by enemy planes.
Later darkness descended.
And the rains came.
And just coming off the episode that we did.
With Musashi who obviously overcame his fear of death.
And I got a book in the mail from Japan.
And the book was called The Hundred Rules of War.
It's from someone in Japan named Eric.
Eric Shahhan, who turned out to be the actual translator of this book.
And he's translated a bunch of other Japanese books on martial arts.
And he asked me if this book The Hundred Rules of War.
If any of the rules inside this book apply to modern warfare.
And I read through the book and I read the book.
And it came to a very clear answer that yes.
Not only do many of the rules in the book apply to modern warfare.
They also apply to life in general like many of the rules that I talk about.
And this book The Hundred Rules of War, which by the way only has 97 rules in it.
But the book was originally written by Sukahara.
Book would end.
Who lived from 1489 to 1571.
So that's actually before Musashi's lifetime.
Because Musashi was born.
They say in 1584.
So this book predates Musashi.
And there's actually multiple revisions on this book.
It's interesting people would get it and add something to it over the years.
There was a forward written to the book in the mid 1600s.
By Takawan Soho.
And then there was an after-word written by one of the grandchildren of Boca-den students.
And there's another section.
The first eight lines in the book that were added.
And those are attributed to Shogun Yoshimune.
And he's a Shogun that ruled the Japan from 1716 until 1745.
So this book is very interesting.
And since Eric who sent it to me is obviously fluent in Japanese.
I'll apologize of course for my bad Japanese pronunciation.
But we'll go for it.
I'll want to take you through some of the sections of this book that again,
I feel not only applied to combat today, but to life today.
And interestingly, here's the, we'll start off a little bit with the introduction.
And this is again written by, written after the original book came out.
And this guy added this introduction to it.
And he's describing how great the book is.
It's a little bit of arrogance in this, but it's okay.
Because he's saying hey, he's not saying he wrote it.
He's saying look, this book is important.
And here we go to the book.
If you change out the people, if you change out the words, if you change out the places,
and if you change out every generation, it is like the difference between rain,
do snow and ice.
They reach you for them to buy the same water.
That's interesting.
Right? Because now we're talking about people.
Hey, you can be different times, different places, different surroundings.
But it's like the difference between rain and dew and snow and ice.
It's the same water, the same people are the same.
Back to the book.
These words should be read by any and everyone who follows the way of the warrior.
Speak them aloud so that you may hear them in your ears and fail to heed them at your peril.
They're not simply words to rever and praise.
If you are attempting to equate the teachings within this scroll to any other work,
know that this is knowledge that can be found only after summoning the tallest peak of a mountain.
The depth of the wisdom contained on these pages makes the sea seem shallow by comparison.
If you were a compare person, versed in these ideas to a stone, you would find the latter soft by comparison.
Pull a bowstring, launching an arrow, or pulling a bowstring, launching an arrow, raising your whip,
encouraging your steed, dawning your armor, taking up your lance, gaining fame and honor,
becoming one who starts a great house, read this book, listen to it.
Understand the unmistakable truths.
It would be utterly foolish to not lock them in your mind.
In my opinion, even if you lived through a hundred generations over a thousand years,
coming across another book like this, would be like to a blind turtle who comes to the surface once every hundred years,
climbing its way into a hole on a piece of driftwood.
I like that.
Now, as we jump into this book, there's one more thing I need to mention.
I said that there's these additions kind of to the book over time.
Well, one of the additions to the book, I mean, this book is written in the 1500s,
but one of the additions to the book, and this is something that Eric added,
that he found a translation of the book by a researcher and a practitioner of the sword arts.
And this guy's name was Hori Shogi, and he produced the text, and he put little helpful interpretations,
kind of furthering the idea a little bit.
So I'll read those sometimes because it gives a little bit of clearification as to what's being talked about.
And these first eight lines are actually, I'll give it up for these first eight lines in this book being fairly epic, fairly epic.
And again, these were written by Tokugawa Shogun Yishimuni.
And again, he was the Shogun ruler of Japan from 1716 to 1745, and here's what he added to the book.
I think these are, well, here's number one, you cannot have pleasure without pain, and you cannot have pain without pleasure.
Your struggles now will be rewarded in the future, so you must endure.
Right?
Yes.
Kind of speaks for itself, does it not?
In fact, I think we call that discipline, it goes freedom. Next, be reverent towards the law, be afraid of fire, be afraid of thoughtless,
dedlusional people, and never forget to be reverent to those you owe a debt of gratitude to.
This is one of those things that what do we say now, never forget where you came from, right? People say never forget where you came from.
So don't forget those people that got you there, because where you came from, somebody helped you along the way.
And so don't forget about that. Next one, you should think of greed and lust as the enemy.
Hmm, concur. I think I like this one. You should neither sleep late nor talk too long. Now, I guess I'm kind of the talk too long.
I may be violating that on the regular basis, at least once a week on a podcast.
Yes, me too sometimes.
Actually, you might violate that on the regular.
But here's the guy, don't sleep late. And you know, I get this all the, every time I, every time somebody talks to me about sleeping, someone says,
Why have the night shift or while I work late, my kids don't go to bed until midnight. Okay, I get it.
I'm not saying everyone in the world has to wake up at 430.
Yeah, what I'm saying is that you shouldn't sleep late, right? And if you work at night shift, not sleeping late might be waking up at noon, right?
Yeah, but you didn't oversleep as my point.
Yeah, it's the idea just like I said, like, we all want to like stay cozy and are been and kind of take our time.
Right, yeah, it's the idea for sure. That's what I get from anyway.
It's not the mandatory. Yeah, 430. And if you don't wake up at 430, you're black or something. Yeah, like someone someone, someone,
So I had picture my hand on the interweb, right? And I had a little callos get removed. Sure on the pull up bar.
And I'm the pull up bar. Yeah, but someone someone said, Hey, if someone doesn't have callos, they don't work out.
And then someone else said, Well, what if you run a marathon, he still work out. And so, you know, it's the point is get some right kids can you get some while training for a marathon? Yes,
Can you get some on a run your marathon? Yes, you can look at look at Rob Jones.
Yeah, he just ran 31 marathon. Yeah, everyone days. Yeah, that's getting some. We're not accusing him of not working.
Yeah, Matt, it is lack of callos. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. All right, next.
Take care to organize even trivial things. Then if something major occurs, it will not catch you off guard.
So that's the little things that matter. Attention. You know, you're not doing no military. We need to join the military. I joke about it. They make you fold your underwear in like a four by four inch square.
And that's the thing. They're trying to teach you attention to detail because actually I was talking to Marine buddy mine. I think it was, I want to say it was Morgan.
Yeah, and they were, they landed their hellow and the gunner, whoever was in charge of the weapon, cracked off a 50 cow round into the, well, so you have a 50 cow
mounted in the helicopter, guy cracked off around he, if a weapon gets hot, it can just shoot. Okay. Yeah, yeah, if a weapon is really hot, it's called a cook off.
You've got a round in the chamber and the weapon's hot and it can just make that round go off from what the what anything.
Just well, no from hot. If it's hot, well, you're shooting it. Okay, if it's hot inside then you add you shoot it a bunch. And now it gets hot. There's a hot round sitting in the chamber.
Yeah, and a minute goes by or you can know him. You know how long it's going to be. It could be five minutes, but boom, all of a sudden it just fires.
Yeah, and this, so before in this particular case, I'm not sure the weapon system, it was a 50 cow. But I'm not sure where they had it mounted.
But anyways, he should have cleared it before he folded it up into the helicopter and he didn't do that.
And so he pulled the rounds out, but there's one round sitting in the chamber and sure enough it cooked off. So that's the kind of thing where they're trying to get you to pay attention to the small details.
Yeah.
The trivial things.
Because the trivial things aren't too trivial.
Yeah, did they do they explain that to you? Like when you're folding you underwear, do they explain, okay, then you know, that all they do.
They do, and I've talked about this before on the podcast that my drone instructor in, in Officer candidate school. At the end of Officer candidate school, he explained why on everything.
At the end.
Oh, like Mr. Mayaldi.
No, no, of course.
No, while you're doing it though, they'll be saying, how can you, you can't even fold your underwear, not right. How can we trust you with a weapon system?
Yeah.
They'll say that kind of thing to you.
But you don't really, when you're, when I was going through regular boot camp, you're just, you're, your mind is being transformed from civilian world to military world. So you're not, you don't have good perspective.
Yeah.
You know, you're like weapon system man.
I just want to eat the next meal.
Yeah.
You're, you're not, you can't see the big picture.
I mean, I, I couldn't. I was too young or too dumb or a little bit of both.
Yeah.
But they do. They're saying, hey, how could you, how could you, how could you trust, how could you,
how could you, fly an airplane, if you can't even fold your underwear right, boy.
You're, you're actually thinking, well, damn, maybe I shouldn't be flying an airplane.
I can't fold my underwear right.
Yeah.
But they're trying to teach you attention to detail. And it is good.
And it does apply to everything.
You know, it does apply to everything.
And you do the little things right. And that way, the little things are in order.
And that means the big things, even if they catch a little off guard, you're at least prepared for it.
Yeah.
Yeah. That whole thing, I mean, I, I dig it, you know, how they're talking to you guys like that.
But that whole thing where, how do you expect to do this when you can't even, you know, tire shoes right or whatever, you know, like,
like, say, or you don't bind to that, I don't know.
I do.
What I, I don't know.
It's good.
You're like, how are you going to, because a lot of things, it's like a false little equivalency there.
Something, there's telling you to pay attention a little thing.
Yeah.
I get attention to detail.
I get that part of it for sure.
But I'm saying, like, if it's, hey, they're not explaining why.
I don't, and it could be wrong.
Well, they're explaining why, but they're doing it.
They're not doing, they're not breaking it down.
Right.
You know, like a school teacher is right.
Okay. Well, this is echo Charles.
Let me tell you why this is important.
I'm not doing that.
Yeah.
That's something like that.
No, they're not, they're saying, hey, they're, they're getting it.
Yeah.
How can we trust you with a rifle if you can't fall during the war right?
Okay.
And, and I would say this, maybe I didn't see the big picture, but I at least saw the little picture.
Yeah.
Well, that's, you know, the thing ultimately, like, you know, like, and I mentioned,
Mr. Mia, like, uncrout credit kit, right?
Where he's like, wax on wax off.
You know, and he's like, oh, this is so dumb then at the end, he gets the picture, you know,
but as he's doing it, I mean, he didn't say, you know, if you can't send the floor,
how are you going to, why then the term, and nothing like that?
Well, he was teaching him some kind of technique allegedly.
Right.
But that's essentially what they're doing as far as attention to detail.
They're making you do all these little, you did, too.
That would make you, there's nothing.
I'm sure there's a bunch of stuff that's there in foot lock pieces of wood.
Yeah, but that's pretty, like, that's an obvious translation, you know, like,
like, I'm gonna foot lock something.
It's like punching a punching bag, you know, same thing.
Yeah.
Through just two.
First check.
All right, going to the next one.
90% is not enough.
Only 100% will keep disaster at bay.
That's good.
Now, of course, many times, I'll say, hey, 80, you got an 80% solution.
Go.
Right.
Yeah.
Because people sit around and wait for the right hand.
Good plan now.
Which, so I think that's a little bit different, but this, I think if you're talking about effort,
yeah.
Right.
The effort has to be 100%.
Yeah.
We're not gonna give 100%.
And it's a settling thing, too, right?
You know, people like, you don't, don't, like, set, you know, don't tell
for 90%.
But it's 100% is required.
Exactly.
Yeah.
That's what I get from it.
Next, having good judgment also means being able to endure.
There you go.
In your take pain.
And it's not just pain.
It's also being able to take just, just, just, just, just, just comfort.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And just comfort.
Like, like, how many people don't want to do a job, just because it's, just because it's
grueling and not fun.
Yeah.
Right.
Right here.
A lot of people fall back at a point.
Not right now currently, obviously, but, you know, in general, yeah, that's my channel.
I had a tooth from for the most part.
Sometimes.
What was the worst, most medial job that you really hated?
My worst job that I really hated was being a mover at American whippers on a wall
and a hole in a hole.
For the summer, but then you get a little bit.
What?
Like, like, hey, man, I'm gonna move this thing really fast.
No.
No, not at all.
It was like, moving.
And for other people all day, like, and it was bad as like 13 hours a day, average.
I work on.
I, every time I, when I work construction and the first day on the job site, the, the guys
came into the Wendy's.
I work at Wendy's.
Sure.
And the guys looked at me and the, in this, all the time guy, builder.
He looks at me goes, what are you doing here?
And I said, I'm making rent.
He says, you want to work here?
I said, no, sir.
He said, you want to work construction with me?
I said, yes, sir.
He said, but report tomorrow, wherever a cracker they were building the place right across
the street.
Yeah.
I said, yes, sir.
So I showed up there in the morning.
And there was a dump truck had come with a ton of concrete block to, that we're going to build
a little foundation wall.
And they just dumped it, you know, 100 yards away.
All these concrete blocks.
Yeah.
And he says, hey, your job today is to move these blocks.
Over to get them over here near the foundation thing.
And he said, we're going to get some coffee and some donuts.
Sure.
Yeah.
Donuts.
So I said, yes, sir.
And he got in the truck with the guys, right?
And I started moving these blocks.
I was running.
Literally running as fast as I could possibly do it.
And I wasn't even doing that as like a challenge to myself.
I was so happy to not be working at Wendy's.
Yeah.
That I would have, I mean, I just was filled with energy.
So I can get all these blocks done.
And another guy was there who didn't go to get coffee donuts.
And he kind of gave me, hey, man, you need to slow down.
Yeah.
You know, you're going to make him look bad.
And I would just say, hey, I'm going pretty slow.
And I said, I said, I'll do whatever.
You know, I'll do your job.
You can sit there.
I don't care.
So, but what do you think of any of that?
You didn't get any, I mean, you didn't pose little challenges to yourself.
Yeah.
You're a little work crew.
That's actually how I got by.
I was like, okay, let me do this.
Because if there's a way to get by, you should tell people because some people are stuck in jobs
They don't like right at this moment in time.
They're listening to podcasts and they're working at Wendy's.
Yeah.
And I work at Wendy's.
Bro.
Yeah.
That was a lot of fun.
That was a fun locker.
That was a fun.
Worked at full luck.
But what is like that?
What is that?
Like that?
Yeah.
He knows funny men.
On quiet working at full luck was kind of, when you walk in, it'd be like,
Hey, that's kind of cool.
You get to wear the ref uniform and all that.
And the men, when we, we're in high school.
Yeah.
So, man, we start working.
I was like, this is, it's tedious.
It's weird how your perspective changes.
Yeah.
I was thinking about that the other day when you're a young team guy.
And you get like when I got my first apartment.
I was, I'm a little man.
Yeah.
I was the richest guy in the world.
I was the man.
Yeah.
But then as you, you know, you settle into that.
And then you say, well, you know what I need to buy.
Cool.
That little house.
I like you got to be, be wary of the greed.
That's true.
But that's natural though, right?
It's like, you don't when you get used to something.
It becomes the new standard.
You know how that whole thing works.
Right.
Well, okay.
Then what's the difference between someone?
Because you and I both know people.
There's people that get to the comfort zone and then they're done.
What's the difference between someone that gets the comfort zone and done?
And someone that gets the comfort zone and says, alright, I'm comfortable here, but I want more.
Yeah.
I want to do more.
Maybe not want more because that implies a materialistic point.
But I just want more.
Huh.
Yeah.
I know.
Because they're both like really like obviously prevalent in like almost natural.
Yeah.
You can get both those personalities exist.
But I'm sure we're all like, but we're both of that.
I'm sure everybody is both of those things in one way or another.
You know, like in, you know, like we're probably both in like the comfort zone big time as far as certain things.
You know, I don't know why the whole thing.
You know, I can't.
No, you know what's interesting.
Yeah.
Because if you think about it, you see someone that's got 70% body fat.
And you go dude.
Yeah.
That dude's got 70% body fat.
That's got like that sucks.
Like, yeah.
That person should work.
You know, trying to get that, trying to drop that percentage down.
Yeah.
But there's someone that's looking at me.
Some guy that's obsessed with being lean as hell.
He's looking at me like God.
I can't believe chocolate's got whatever.
Yeah.
20% or 18.
Whatever my percent body fat is.
Yeah.
He's looking at me going.
Dude.
Well, you know, I mean, so why am I comfort zone?
No, no, no, no, no.
I don't know.
No, no, no.
Because it's not like you were getting after it.
You're not after your body percent levels.
And then you had a certain number and then you were like,
I don't care.
It's kind of thing.
I don't think that that's a good way it went.
Here's what have and not with you.
Obviously, I can't speak as far as your comfort zones go.
But a typical one we'll say is that, you know,
guys will be working out and like getting their fresh hair cut or whatever.
And then they'll get married and then they won't work out as much.
You guys girls whatever.
You know, and do that, they quote unquote let themselves go after they get married.
Like that kind of stuff.
But they might focus a lot more on their career.
And then they might want more of that.
But then, you know, it's like that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
I think you gotta watch out for the comfort zone.
Yeah, I need to go to.
All right.
Next.
Oh, now we've moved beyond those opening lines.
And now we get into the bulk of the book book,
which again, which is written by this book again, guy.
And here we go.
It does not matter whether you are filing firing at an enemy near you or an opponent.
Some distance away, you should be a depth that's selecting the best arrowhead.
And then the, the amplification on that says the lesson here is that you need a strong arrow for an adversary at close range.
But a lighter one for hitting an opponent far away.
And I guess when I read this, the point that I got out of it was,
you, you need to be able to select your tools properly.
Right.
And as a leader, you need to be able to select.
Think of all the tools we've talked about on this podcast that you need to use as a leader.
Yeah.
Some guys gotta be a little bit harsher with a guy.
Sometimes you gotta be, you gotta flank a guy.
Sometimes you gotta be directors.
All these different tools that you need to use as a leader.
You gotta be a depth that's selecting the right tools.
And I gave a metaphor on here one time about about
how, uh, you're like a woodworker, right?
This is actually what's interesting about the woodworker metaphor is as a leader.
You have to be like a woodworker, which means you need to learn all these different types of tools.
But you need to learn how to use these different tools on different types of wood.
And each one of these types of wood, each one of these individual pieces of wood is a little bit different.
They got a little not, they got a grain, they get things.
So you, you can't just learn a mechanical skill.
Yeah.
You have to learn to be a true craftsman with the tools.
And then you have to learn about what the different types of people they are.
And then you have to see that each, even a different type, like this person might have a big ego.
But they got this other thing.
You know, they get a little different grain.
Yeah.
Kind of like a barber.
You know, the barber cuts your hair.
You're the person using the clippers.
Well, yeah.
And you keep us up the thing and it depends, you know.
Yeah.
That's true.
Like a barber or I guess we could say any type of craftsmen that is to work with varying medium.
Sure.
Yeah, pretty much anybody really.
Everybody.
You've watched the social network, right?
Watch that show.
Sounds weird.
It's a, when you first hear the idea of Facebook, you both have about Facebook and Zuckerberg.
The first, when you hear about that, you're like, oh, who cares?
But probably that's a good movie.
Really good movie.
Anyway.
It's a movie.
I thought it was a show movie.
A movie.
Okay.
The social network.
Is he awkward?
Yeah.
It's really, they overdo his awkwardness.
Maybe.
I don't know.
I don't really follow Zuckerberg to know his awkwardness or whatever.
But he ever heard people call him sucks.
Yeah, sucks.
Like that.
We can tell you the coffee sucks.
We're tied.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Sure.
But he's doing something.
He's breaking into the college computer or mainframe.
Whatever.
He's breaking into and he's kind of narrating what he's doing.
He's like, I had to do this.
So I break out this.
You know, and he's doing the same thing.
That was a really revealing part in regards to his kind of thing.
Oh, he's got to make sure he's getting here because he's trying to solve these
for it.
It's all code and you know, so he's trying to solve this problem.
But then this problem comes out.
And then this one has these specific problems.
So he has to solve them.
But he can't just deal with the current tools.
He has to bust out together.
The vision when he was creating it of of what it was going to be.
Well, did he feel that confident about it?
Did he see the whole vision or did he like wake up one day and say,
Dang, this thing is going to be really long.
No, no.
It was like it was a slow evolution into it because at first it was like he started with this thing called
Face Smash, which was basically just comparing the girls on campus like who's hotter.
And then you click, okay, she's hotter.
Then he go to the next one.
She's hotter.
You know, and that's called buttocks.
Yes.
And that was a big part of it.
It was like that's what people would hate them and stuff like that.
And then it just slowly, um, now it was a social network.
These guys.
Like, we were like, what a teenager would do, right?
Oh, yeah, big time.
And that's what they were trying to emphasize to more like he just wanted to be liked by people.
He made that.
I'm like, I thought that was going to help him be liked.
He didn't do your job.
He's not.
This is just what the moves that I don't know.
You know, I'm sure there's some inconsistencies with it.
But no, it's weird is it would be weird to meet him.
We're not just to meet him like, hey, nice to meet you, but to actually know him.
I guess.
Because then you see what someone's there's been there's been people that I've kind of known that we're
uh, whatever, so to say, my famous or whatever the word is.
Sure.
And in reality, like on TV, they seem like they're not cool people.
But in regular life, they're really cool.
And then the opposite, I've also seen where someone is,
It seems super cool.
When you see their persona and then real life, they're not cool.
Yeah.
I guess that'd be pretty common to kind of be inconsistent that way.
Or have it be inconsistent as far as your experience with that person.
Seems like they had to be kind of common.
Right?
Because a lot of people, if they're famous or if they're, you know,
famous, pop it whatever.
A lot of times you kind of got to turn it on for the camera, right?
Especially because you're essentially a performer in one way or another,
whether it be actor or whoever, you know,
even like businessmen, you know, like it's weird.
And it's not even necessarily a bad thing.
It's more like for lack of a better term, a required thing.
You know, so like my brother, for example, like if I know him,
but then when I hear him talking to like,
I don't know exactly.
Or like everyone's while he'll, I'll see him on like an interview or something.
And I'm like, like, he, there's only because I know.
I know.
So good.
So like I feel like just a lot of, uh, Joe Rogan.
So I actually met Joe Rogan.
A long time ago when I was just Dean's one of Dean's
cornermen, right? You know how Joe Rogan treated me back then?
Oh, super cool.
Like just like just the same.
I then when I was up on his podcast,
the same dude.
That's a good dude right there.
You know what I mean?
A green and strangely enough, I had the exact same experience.
And this is, and this whole, this whole kind of demonstrate how legit
a minute it is, right?
So same exact story.
I messed Joe Rogan for the first time with Dean and my wife.
We went to, we kind of knew Red Banner.
So we went to one of his shows.
We got to go to one of his shows and go talk to him afterwards, right?
So that's the first day of Madame.
Same thing.
Super nice.
Game is email.
Yeah.
I'm like, sorry.
I'm just some dude.
He was like, yeah.
Email this guy.
Yeah.
And then so the next time I see him was when I went to
Legends to train.
When I was going to LA for, you know,
I'd be performing.
Then train at Legends.
And so I go there and, um,
he's there.
He's rolling with everyone and everything.
You know, it's like he's known there or whatever.
You know, like, come, just another person there.
It's for his training us.
And then, um, so he's kind of cruising down the side.
So I'm going to go last something to roll.
So I was like, hey, what's up.
Yeah, I met you with Dean long time ago.
You know, a few years ago, whatever.
It's like he was like, yeah,
I must have been a lot like he totally did it.
Remember me, you know.
It's not like, I remember you.
So now I'm going to be cool to you.
It was like he did totally did it.
Remember me.
I was probably one of many people.
And he was still just his cool.
So he starts talking about you.
You know how like you did.
You know, hey, small talk before you guys roll.
And then, um, so it's small talking.
He starts talking about current USC stuff.
We didn't even roll.
I just want to listen to him talk about USC.
And so he did roll.
But same thing, same exact thing.
And then, and even when I went up to film with him for the
Metamorphor stuff for Eddie Bravista, same thing.
He liked for God and brought me again.
That was like years ago.
And he was like, oh, yeah, that must have been a long time ago.
Same exact thing.
I was like, yeah, I actually respect the fact that this go, oh, yeah,
yeah, I remember.
Yeah, yeah, fully.
Yeah, he's, he doesn't play that game.
Yeah, and I actually met 80 million people last year.
And I don't really remember you, but it's good to hang out with you right now again.
Yeah, exactly exactly exactly.
And this, I mean, of course, yeah, Joe Rogan is like this.
And if people are like this in general, that is just like I said,
that's kind of like a, not a late missed test, but kind of like,
it's this indicator, you know, he didn't remember me.
So really, since he didn't remember me,
for all intents purposes, I was just another person.
And same exact treatment, just cool, just normal.
Oh, yeah.
It wasn't like, I mean, you're you, and there's this separation kind of thing.
It would none of that.
Yeah, no.
It's good way to be.
Yeah.
I don't know how we ended up talking about that one.
You dropped Joe Rogan's name and we said, it's not going to be that.
So, you know.
Good point, name job.
name job.
All right.
Next, your mount should be of normal strength and spirit.
Horses with a strong urge to win or fearful and skiddish
should be rejected out of hand.
So I thought this was interesting.
Because we're talking about finding someone that's balanced, right?
Not someone that's, he's a normal, normal strength and spirit.
Don't want someone that's, brah, grow.
But you don't want someone that's weak.
You want someone that's in the middle.
And the, the amplification on it says horses without nerve or weak while a horse with a lot of spirit
cannot be written by normal people.
Hmm.
In other words, a slightly strong somewhat plucky horse is best, plucky, by the way.
Second time we've heard that word today.
Hmm.
This is a sign to learn the word.
Do you know what it means?
I didn't know it.
No, no.
Plucky means brave.
Okay, doesn't need.
How to look that one up.
Similar here as long as a horse is strong is acceptable.
It is acceptable for it to have a certain inclination.
However, never ride a horse with a tendency to retreat.
So if you got a strong horse, it's, it's basically to me.
This is as long as the thing is not going to turn tail.
If it's a little bit feisty, if it's a little bit less a little bit of that,
you can have a little bit different person.
And what I took away from this is as a leader once again,
you're going to get people with some things going on.
Some little personality traits, some little, like when you're putting together a seal
puttune, you're going to have some guys that are, got some 80 or same creases, right?
Yeah.
You got 16 guys in a seal puttune.
You got 36 guys in a task unit that they're not all the same by any stretch.
And some of them are going to be even further outside the box of, you know,
they're going to have some kind of, the 80 or same creases.
You might even call it an issue.
I think that's kind of an overused word, but it might have some kind of issue, right?
Sure.
Okay.
What this is saying is, as long as they're not going to retreat and run,
we're all right.
But if they're going to retreat and run, if that's their, are you a sink or sink?
Yeah.
Get rid of them.
What do you call it?
Deal breaker.
Deal breaker big time.
All right.
Next, while small horses may be easier to handle as well as dismount from those
who prefer such animals are a bit demwitted.
So what I like about this is, if you're in a leadership position,
you might want to surround yourself with people that are just,
that are just dudes you say in there.
You're going to say it.
Yeah.
I want my horses all just to fall in line and they're easy to get on and off.
And if I yell at them, they don't bark back.
Yeah.
You don't want those people.
You want people that are a little bit harder to handle.
Just a little bit harder to handle.
Maybe they're going to stand up to you. Like I always say, you don't want to be surrounded by yes men.
You want to be surrounded by people that will question you, it's a, I don't like this plan.
So that's kind of horses you want.
Not, not little tiny weak horses.
No.
All right.
Next.
You should know that a person wearing a newly forged sword will invariably
blunder even if that sword cuts well.
So basically, this is like you got to watch a new guy's a little bit.
Wait.
Say that again.
It's, it's, it's, you should know that a person wearing a newly forged sword will invariably
blunder even if that sword cuts well.
Okay.
That's it.
So you got to watch a new guy's in.
Here's the amplification on this one.
A sword that is not at least a hundred years old is one that you cannot rely on.
Good. Okay.
Yeah.
It's like young people full of vigor and energy.
The vitality of a young sword is not entirely stable.
You cannot rely on it.
Hey, you got to watch.
Yeah.
You got to watch.
Unproven, unproven.
Got to watch him.
That makes sense to me.
And I'm not saying they won't be bad asses.
Yeah.
Because it might be.
Right.
They might be.
I had new guys that were built complete bad asses.
But you don't know that.
I also had new guys where you'd think they're going to be good.
It's weird man.
I've been talking about buds a little bit lately.
Sure.
Some of my friends.
You, you have no idea who's going to make it through.
Yeah.
You don't know because it's mental right?
You're, it's mental and physical.
You can't see.
Is there like, I don't know.
But you know, like, let's say there's a run.
And you got to, you know, do they, is there any circumstances that are this or similar to this?
Where you got to make this run in, you know, ten minutes, whatever.
And if you don't make the ten minutes, you're out.
Yeah.
But there's stuff like that.
For sure.
Absolutely.
There's actually the standard times where runs have been in place since I went through
and they're the same for the food.
What they call a four mile time run.
Yeah.
And in first phase, the time maximum time you can take is 32 minutes.
32 minutes.
What are you running?
That's, that's, that's your, your surprise because that's slow, right?
Four mile.
That's a time run.
That's eight minute mile.
That's pretty fast.
What?
It's pretty fast.
No.
Then in second phase, it goes down to 30 minutes.
Bro, you used to run a what?
Oh, yeah.
I could do it.
But it's not like that.
Yeah.
Let me tell you.
That's not fast.
In second phase, it goes to 30 minutes.
In fourth phase, it goes to 28 minutes.
That's a seven minute mile.
That is not fast.
Yeah.
I thought you're going to say like 10 minute mile.
This is what, this is what trips people up or jams people up as you like to say.
What jams people up is when you do the run, you're not fresh.
That's the thing.
You're not fresh.
You're wearing boots, boots, your pants.
You're on the soft sand.
On the sand.
Yeah.
And the sand like part of it will be hard pack.
But then like part of it's going to be soft.
Yeah.
And this has changed a little bit from what I've been told.
When I went through the instructors, maybe that run was 4.2 miles.
Yeah.
4.5 miles.
Maybe it was 3.8 miles.
They kind of estimated.
So if you didn't make it the time.
So when I went through, if you didn't make the time for that at for run,
they had your name if you failed to get and you were done.
Okay.
So it's like one strike.
Yes.
Okay.
Now the interesting thing is if you failed to run and then you failed to swim,
you could still,
will you still be there?
But if you failed to run,
or again, you can.
Yeah.
If you failed to run and to swim and you failed on obstacle course,
you'd still be there.
Okay.
I failed one more time.
They call it being on the bubble.
Yeah.
Actually, I think that actually came from Officer Canada School.
I don't think we said the bubble.
There's new things that that that developed.
That develop in Buds.
Yeah.
Take that come.
I've heard on the bubble plenty times.
You're on the bubble.
They should have tried.
That just means in general.
In life.
Yeah.
Like for your college job.
You're in a bubble.
You can cut.
Yeah.
So.
Thanks.
Okay.
So that's what you mean by it's physicals.
Yeah.
It's physical.
If you don't.
Yeah.
You can fail physically.
I've been telling people this lately.
I had to run as fast as I could possibly run the past the runs.
For that formula,
that would be me too.
And the one time one time I paste myself.
It was like, you know what?
I'm just going to paste myself.
I'm sure I'll be fine.
I paste myself.
Yeah.
I failed.
Like.
So then from then on.
And I had a buddy that was a cross country runner.
Yeah.
And I school or college or something.
Mm-hmm.
And he's a hate run with me.
And I'm like, yeah.
And I didn't.
Like I'd brand his heart as a.
And that's how I had to run every run.
I had to run this hard as I could.
Yeah.
And there's guys that ran cross country.
Those runs are joke for those guys.
I mean, yeah.
Echo.
I mean, there's a lot of people that can run five minute miles.
Yeah.
That are doing those runs.
And, you know, a formal run in like 20 to 22 minutes.
Yeah.
And that's not true.
I'm surprised that you thought that was fast.
I think I just caught you off guard.
You know, it's slow dude.
It might be slow.
Do you mean the way me my fast and depends on when you meet my slow.
When I used to like run,
I would run on the treadmill and I would run a seven minute.
And I'm talking to me like the treadmill.
But those are, no.
That's part of my life.
No, that's part of my point.
You run on the treadmill.
I'd run like a seven minute mile pace.
And I'd be like dang.
And, but I don't only do like one mile.
Gonna be like good.
That's like, I've, I've only run on a treadmill like three times.
It's easier.
Yeah.
You're like, if I was on board ships,
I would run around the flight deck.
Yeah.
So that's what I mean.
I'm talking to you.
These guys running seven, eight minute mile.
Usually when I'd run like four miles or five miles on the treadmill,
it'd be like ten, like just under like nine minutes.
Something like that.
I don't even know how to translate to your treadmill.
I honestly don't.
I don't know how that translates.
Yeah.
So I would say it's like, but a nine minute mile is pathetic.
Right.
That's, and that's what the pace older run my four miles.
And I wouldn't be dead, but I'd be that beat.
Yes.
There's a harder.
If I, if you want me to run an eight minute, seven minute, eight minute mile with boots
in the sand even some of the time you're crazy.
I would be.
So you're a little bit of a distance runner is what I'm hearing.
Apparently, yeah.
I would be going like you as fast as I possibly can to make it.
Check.
Dang.
Back to the book.
Well, you should select a sword with a handle that is long and thin.
You should reject any sword with one that is excessively long.
I like that a lot of these rules are balanced.
They're about balance.
That's what they're about.
Hey, you want it long and thin, but don't.
Yeah.
You want to horse that's strong, but not overly strong.
This is a lot about balance.
And here's the amplification.
You are less likely to drop a sword with a thin handle.
However, in cold weather, you are liable to drop a sword with a thick handle.
For the most part, when on horseback, you should pass a string through the hand guard of your sword and tie it to your arm.
Once you drop it, you will to pick it up again.
Have landed.
Have a landed on your weapon.
Have a leash.
Have a board?
No.
That's different.
No, no, no, no, no.
I think that's the same thing.
No, no, no.
These are for dogs.
Don't.
I had my whole career.
Had a landed on my pistol.
Only needed it one time.
Dang.
I don't think I even heard of it.
Meaning, me and I only dropped my pistol one time.
Yeah.
Next.
Again, balance.
It is good for the tip of your spear to be long.
However, if it is too long, you may find yourself in trouble.
Amplification, the blade on the end of your spear should be long, but not excessively so.
If it is too heavy, then you'll lose it.
Balance.
Gotta keep things balanced.
Next, even if you are able to fly up into the sky without feathers, you have no chance of victory with a spear.
You cannot wield with your own two hands.
I like that one.
Is that kind of like girls overpacking for a trip and making you carry their stuff?
I don't think it has anything to do with that.
Kind of.
When you really think about it, think about it.
Oh, because she can't carry her stuff.
Yes, she has all her stuff that she needs, and she's going to do well on the vacation as far as comfort goes whatever.
But she can't even carry it.
If you would have made it not about vacation, but about patrolling on the woods, right?
It's great that you brought a whisper light and extra food and all this other stuff.
But you can't carry it.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Remember Lafay was talking about that?
First patrol, the body.
You had 27 and grand grandads with them.
You used ready for World War III though.
You know.
Yeah, because it was the double doozy was getting acclimated to being in the 120 degree heat and getting acclimated to running around the Marine Corps is out.
They've been out there for months sprinting from corner to corner to cover cover and they've already minimized their gear somewhat.
And Lafay shows up.
He's not only easy, a little heavy or maybe even a lot heavy.
But also he's getting acclimated.
So it's a double.
It's a one-two punch.
Yep.
All right.
This is a good one.
While the shaft of your spear should be long ignored the ground at your peril.
When I first read that, I was like, myself, okay, what does that mean?
Let me ignore the ground.
Here's the amplification.
The length of short to see your spear as well as the weight lighter heavier should differ based on three factors.
You, your enemy and the battleground.
So even if your spear is sufficient, not having an understanding of the terrain will result in defeat.
terrain.
That's what that means by ground.
Yeah.
Ignore the ground at your peril.
And this is something that's very difficult.
It's something that we don't talk about even even I've talked about it before on this podcast.
Mm-hmm.
Knowing terrain.
That's what combat is.
Combat is knowing and understanding the terrain.
It's knowing and understanding the ground.
It's understanding land features and buildings and what angles producing and where your patrol should go and where a good ambush site would be.
That is all based on knowing the ground.
The terrain is what we call, we don't call the ground.
We call it the terrain.
Yeah.
Knowing terrain features.
Micro features.
Micro terrain.
What's this little draw?
Dead space.
All these little things are so important.
So that rule absolutely applies to this day.
Next.
Samurai do not gorge themselves at bankwits.
Eating twice a day is more than enough.
An amplification.
Samurai must train themselves to be able to withstand hunger and to always be on their guard.
So today's past it was said that two meals a day is plenty.
It appears there were some people eating three times a day in this era.
Dropping the hammer.
Do you eat three meals a day?
Three.
Yeah.
That's how.
Sometimes two.
What I'm feeling, you know, more your spirit.
Yeah.
I've actually heard that.
I think hoiler was the one who told me that two meals a day.
No, it wasn't as much as it was the amount of meals a day.
It was like the type of meals.
You know, they would eat that meat.
They have a certain mix of kind of formula.
But they see diet.
Yeah.
And if you notice it, it's really light.
But nanos you know.
You come first.
Yeah.
It's weird stuff that you're going to miss.
But we made this smoothie for one time.
It was like, there was like, I want to say cream cheese in there with water
Mellon and but it was like interesting little mix.
But it was good though.
But it was like, it's like a lot of stuff is like, because you, um, you know, when you get a lot of people coming in trying to challenge you at the academy.
It's like, oh, it's going, you know, when people, you've got to be ready.
You've got to be ready.
Yeah.
So you can't be like, oh, I just ate up, you know, I don't know.
I don't like drinking.
People ask me that all the time.
Do you, do you, do you, what are you eating the morning before you work out?
I don't know anything.
Nothing.
Yes.
And I don't like to eat before I train.
Oh, great.
And some people say, oh, it's an hour and a half.
But now I'm going to have to for a train. I don't even like to eat two, three hours before I try to.
I mean, that's why it's much, but chicken today.
You got the laid.
And I was like, hey, if I don't eat now, you might get angry.
No, then by the time I'm training tonight,
No, yeah, I didn't.
Then I would have to eat when we were done.
And then all the sudden it's, yeah, 45 minutes to an hour and I'm on the mat.
And I don't like that feeling.
Oh, it's starting to my gut.
Yeah, I rather not eat.
We'll consider this where in a real general way.
I've explained it in it.
If you, you know, when you eat something, your stomach got to work.
You're something muscle.
Yeah, it's smooth muscles.
Yeah.
That's a little still.
Scallot muscles.
By the way, smooth muscles.
They got to get to work.
I mean, you know, and enzymes go in there.
All this stuff.
So that's taken away from your.
Yeah, the blood flow like all this.
Basically, the resources of your body start going to your stomach.
Now, and now you want to demand some resources for the rest of your body.
Well, when you go to train, the stomach's like, hey, what about us?
Resources bail from the stomach a little bit.
Stomph feels upset.
You might throw up.
Mm-hmm.
We're feel like it.
And you almost puked the other day.
Yeah, that's bad.
All right.
Same subject.
That's why I'm going to go right to it.
If a samurai is preparing to step onto the field of battle, does why do avoid?
Is wise to avoid eating anything other than hot water poured over rice?
So that's one way to do it.
Keep the amplification.
If you eat a lot at a banquet before a great battle, the food will not have settled
by the time the fighting starts echo Charles called it.
Yeah.
If you then were to have your head chopped off, all that food would come out and it would
make a great big mess.
Food will not pass down the throne of a coward.
It appears to you is not common.
Okay.
Next one.
Something a samurai should never be without is the thing you use to sharpen your blade.
A wet stone.
Makes sense, right?
Yeah.
That's why you bring your rings when you go on your own.
Your neck going on travel.
Yeah.
If I go for multiple days.
If I go, if I'm only going to be gone for like two or three days, I will just use whatever
random pull up bar I can find or make or yeah.
But if I'm going for five days, six days, bring the rings.
Yeah.
That rings make a big difference if you have rings.
So many workouts you can do with just rings.
Yeah.
When you think about it and I know this from experience, it's in my experience.
It's harder to find something to do pull ups on than what you'd expect.
Do you think, oh yeah, I can just do it like right here.
Wherever.
But it can be harder.
Yeah.
You can do push ups anywhere.
You can do inkline push ups.
You go against the on needle.
I'll do inkline push ups.
And you can also use.
It's crazy squats and crystals and jump squats.
Yeah.
Burpees.
Pollups.
That's why rings are key.
And once you have rings, then you can also do ring dips.
You can do like assisted squats if you need them.
I don't want to do that, but.
Oh, no.
You don't need them.
No, no.
Well, I think these blocks.
You're the man.
Bro, I'm not over here bragging about being able to do empty body weight squats.
But.
But you can do everything once you have pararigs.
And you can usually find a place to do pull ups somewhere.
Parking rush.
They have little overhanging ledges.
They have eye beams.
You can hang on to.
They have eye dysaches.
I know someone's going to rip it and break it and spray water.
Every over the half sprinkler system.
Yeah.
And that's actually plumbing.
Plumming is part of my point.
Actually, the cast iron where they where the sewage goes out of a building.
It's usually a big pipe.
And it's hard to do purpose.
But it's good.
Yeah.
I don't think that that's.
I think that's a risk right there.
And it's probably against some sort of a blue hole at the hotel.
Yeah.
You're so kind of careful.
Don't tell him.
I told you.
Yeah.
Bring the blame me.
Break through.
And then we'll work.
I'm going to get your your faults.
Next.
It is unseen me for a samurai to be enamored with the flavor of food that is set down before them.
It's best that your meal be a soup made of boiled water poured over rice.
That's how they roll.
Yeah.
They're just like, you know what I'm going to eat?
With hot water poured over it.
Yeah.
Otherwise, the distraction.
Do you think that that.
That sort of a set of system keeps keeps you tougher.
Kind of.
Yeah.
In a way.
It provides less distraction from your goal.
Because I can in fitness and you know, like working out.
Body building.
A lot of time.
Like that's a factor big time.
Because you got to eat a certain amount to maintain or gain weight and all this stuff.
And, you know, maintain certain, you know, back rows.
You know, fat levels all this stuff.
So you can't just be going to KFC and wherever you think is super delicious.
And just eating and being like, hey, this, you got to have like certain amount of like lean stuff.
And you can't add a bunch of sauces because there's extra calories in there.
You know, all this stuff.
So yeah, if you, if you can endure that kind of kind of like food that doesn't necessarily taste that good.
Yeah, you can get to your goal way better.
What about Charlie Plum, me eating two balls of rice a day for six years?
Yeah.
I'm sure that, you know, that kind of helped them help the later.
What?
It's like accepting of conditions.
Okay.
Well, that, yeah.
You know, like you, it's like if you're, if you're used to sleeping on the floor with like no AC and then you get whatever.
Yeah, you know, you can go sleep on someone's couch.
You can go get rest pretty much anywhere.
And that's a good luxury.
If you, especially when you compare it to a situation where you don't, you don't have that kind of tolerance, you know.
You know, the kind of where you, like you need a certain like softness and temperature and
noise level to sleep, there's people fall asleep.
Yeah.
And then some people, they'll just fall right.
While you're talking to them if they want to kind of think.
Yeah.
I can see, I can see, I can see, really, he's on airplanes.
Me too.
I get a little crouched up and a little ball.
And then he's going to sleep.
You know what, here's what he actually says.
Here's the amplifying information.
The profession of the samurai involves being an extreme environment.
Therefore, gourmet food is of no benefit to them.
There you go.
Do you think that people that just eat really, really high in food all the time, when they go back to eating normal food?
Is it, like, are they suffering?
Yeah, probably a little bit.
Yeah.
In one way.
You depends how they regard it, you know?
Because you know, it's funny when I was a kid, we, like, I eat a lot of steak now.
Sure.
When I was a kid, we didn't even need steak.
Steak costs a lot of money. It does. And when I was a kid, we hamburgers.
Sure.
Yeah.
A lot of hamburgers.
Yeah, that is what.
Yeah.
I didn't even like steak when I got in the Navy, I didn't like steak.
Huh.
Then like it, I had to, I didn't, I just wasn't used to it.
Yeah.
It took me a couple years before I started liking steak.
Usually you hit that one steak that's, like, prepared perfectly.
And then in your mind, you're like, dang, I love steak now.
And then even if you get another steak that wasn't prepared that perfectly,
I don't even know if you're, I don't know if you're assuming it happened to me.
Yeah.
Don't even know if you're just like a, I remember eating burgers at Wendy's though.
All right.
Next.
When entering a confrontation, Samurai should need to look back on the path traveled.
Nor what is off to left to right.
So to me that says,
I would prioritize next to you, right?
No, we're looking around.
You see what you see, what you got to, you see what you got to do.
You got to confrontation front of you.
Here's the implication from the onset.
You should place your, place your full concentration on the battle and not allow your focus to laps during the course of the battle.
The most important aspects of the battle, the most important aspects of battle are the use of people and the use of natural geography.
Right?
You're a leader. You got to use your people correctly.
And as I just talked about terrain using the natural geography, those are the two most important things.
Now can you get target fixation?
Yes, you can.
So you can get so focused that if you don't pay attention, what's going on left and right, you might get flicked.
Yeah.
So you got to watch out for that one.
Next.
Samurai should mind neither the heat of summer nor the cold of winter as they race through fields and over
mountains, exhausting their bodies.
Boom.
You got to train a heat and cold.
Yeah.
That's welcome to the military.
You freeze and you sweat.
That's the way it works.
Yeah.
Funny, Tonya Fraddy and you kind of turned me on to just mentally.
It's more like putting your mind at a certain, in a certain way where, sure it'll be cold,
but it's not about how cold or not cold it is.
Sure it'll be hot.
It's not about how hot or not hot it is and you can't complain about that stuff.
And if you complain, that's like, that's the part that's going to jam you up.
Just how you regard it.
Yeah.
You could not complain in the deems.
Here's what's funny.
I just, you can experience this really easily.
Let's say you and me are out at the beach and it's warm, but out here in California, once a
sun goes down, it cool off really quickly.
You don't have a sweatshirt, whether you need to do I.
You've got a sweatshirt in your bag.
Maybe I have one too because actually this is a contradiction because if I don't bring one,
that means I'm not well prepared.
Yeah.
So I got one in my bag.
Right.
I'm not going to put it on.
Take it out.
You put it on your way.
No, I'm not even going to do that.
I'm not even going to do that.
Just going to leave it.
You would not want to, you just want to be TF as long as you can.
Yeah.
I don't want to, I don't want to, you to see me putting on a sweatshirt, indicating to you that I was
cold enough.
I'm going to, I'm going to pamper myself, not happening.
What if I wasn't there?
Proud about put the sweatshirt on all day long.
Yeah, this is straight up.
No, there's no denying that.
Yeah, that's so funny because before I thought like that, I would have thought that's so dumb.
Like, put in your sweat, you're ruining your experience or whatever.
You got to be each with your whatever friends.
You're going to do a search for this actually happened yesterday.
Proud.
Are these out of surf contest?
Yeah.
And like the clouds came in and it got cool.
And my buddy, he was off.
He was a hammer to go put a sweatshirt on.
And I was like, oh, really?
I saw it.
I see.
Then we both went to gynax sweatshirts.
But he let him do it.
Yeah, he wasn't in teams too.
Yeah, yeah.
So I wasn't just trying to, because there's always that little thing going on in the team.
Yeah, but I kind of feel like, and it goes on in general too.
Just, you know, yeah, fully like like you're going to rock in your shoe.
Just don't just don't get it out.
Just don't get it out.
Leave it in there.
Yeah.
But before that episode with Tony, like, I would be the guy, be like, no, I'm cold.
You know, I can't relate.
But after that for some reason, I think you just morphed in my mind too.
Like, you just got beat TF and you kind of take pride.
Yeah.
Next.
As Samurai, you should take it upon yourself to spend time playing in a water.
Not doing so could well result in disaster.
That's part one.
Obviously, I agree with that one.
You got to be in the water.
Part two, Samurai should as a matter of course, engage in contest, substraint.
If you're not, then your muscles will become slack.
Obviously, I support that one.
I don't know if this guy would just want to read this book.
Yeah.
Is he knew that I was going to be, I mean, how could you not?
How does that not relate to everything that I talk about all the time?
Yeah.
Be in the water.
Work out.
Here's what's funny about this one.
Oh, he says that the peasants strengthen themselves with their day to day labor.
They also tested themselves by lifting and carrying large stones in front of the local shrines
and did pushups in order to build their muscles and thereby increase their overall strength.
However, beginning in the Meiji era, such feats of strength became began to be ridiculed
and the use of rocks to indelde.
Thus, it is hardly a surprise that the youth of today are weak.
Yeah.
And also, it's kind of like that now.
Let's say quote unquote, grown adults.
Let's see who can lift that rock.
That's cool, though, right?
Why are you saying it weird voice?
No, because I would say generally speaking, that's kind of like,
oh, you chat, children.
You know, like, what are you guys doing?
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
You can make fun of that?
Yeah, if you don't know, I can feel pizza strength.
I think competitions.
What do you think the CrossFit games are, though?
Yeah.
Just world-strongest manners.
Yes, I think the UFC is totally agree, but I think if it's not like organized and then like presented, you know, kind of thing.
Like, if me and you were just cruising at the beach and then I'm like, oh, that's funny.
We did me and being how like went to Australia.
Right.
And we're like, all cruising some downtime, we're filming this, this, you know, this video.
And Brad just turned into that, well, 100%.
It was just me and him. So we went from pushups.
He was like, hey, what about the challenge you did, the challenge you did in Maine?
Yeah, perfect.
Yeah, that's like the lift it got a shoulder to the back.
Yeah, a gravel, by the way.
So it's not like a 200 pound bar belt.
Right.
Gravel thing.
Yeah, seeing that's a perfect example.
But that makes you strong.
I think so too.
Yeah, I agree with it.
I'm just, I'm just saying like, if let's say we're all at a like a part of barbecue with
like just a vast variety, but like that's totally acceptable.
You know, the 200 pound bag challenge.
It's all just guys, like, you know, but if we were at a barbecue, you know, let's say my daughter was a birthday party.
Yeah.
Yeah, but you know, your kettlebell's out, right?
If I challenge you to the kettlebell, like, let's see who can do the night.
Whatever the 90 pound one or something at my daughter's birthday party.
I think aside from me, you and me, handful of other guys that are our direct peers.
Yeah.
It's like from them.
I think people would be like, you guys are dull.
Hmm.
That's what I think.
They might be right.
All right.
Next.
If you allow your samurai spirit to wither, clearly your body will then follow suit.
Your skin will begin to stretch as you gain weight.
Part one.
I think we all disagree with the green.
That was right.
Do you think that this goes back to the comfort question?
Let's take you, Jitu.
At a certain point where you say, I don't really care if I get caught by this guy or I'm, you know what?
I'm that guy's training for worlds and hey, if you catch his me, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
I see what you're asking.
So my point is, at a certain point, you accept it.
Yeah.
I think that's okay.
I do think it's okay.
I don't.
I know you don't.
And it's not an absolute, yes.
We're not on the door.
When the door is, you know, hey, it's okay.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm all the excuses, right?
Hey, you know, these guys are young and they're training for the, the, the, this competition or that competition.
You've got to get in there with them.
When I hear that knocking, I slam the door.
Yeah.
Red flag on.
Finally.
Actually, I opened the door and I choked that person out.
Bring it.
Yeah.
I dig it and I'm not.
You can see, but I think if that, when you accept that, I feel, you know,
when you accept it, yeah.
And the other thing that happens is your ego gets in the way, right?
Yeah.
Because because what happens is you don't want to, you don't want to get tapped out.
That's bad.
Yeah.
So you don't want to get tapped out so you're not going to try it.
And it, right?
Right.
That happens.
Yeah.
And it's all different things that all kind of enter into the equation.
So again, it, it comes back to like, why are you, why are you training?
Like, why are you there?
Injuditsu or whatever.
Like why are you there?
So yeah, if this thing, what he's talking about, where it's like, okay, if you're like letting yourself go, if you're kind of giving up.
And then justifying it with in this case, oh, I'm older training for world.
And that's your, your version of giving up.
Then yeah, that's bad.
But if it's like, let's say you're like an older guy or whatever.
And maybe you kind of lost a step or whatever.
You know, like, like, people do when they get older sometimes.
And you're like, hey, you know, this guy is getting nuts. If I rise to that level of intensity, I could get heard or something like that.
And it's like in, in, okay, yeah.
Okay, you know, you can be smart.
Yeah.
Right.
For instance, if everyone's doing take downs and you're knees a little bit tweaked, you know what?
Exactly.
Right.
That's something I need to check myself on sometimes.
Yeah.
You do.
Big talk actually.
Yeah.
But makes it.
But that's a big one though. Like when you when you start like what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
What it is is you when you allow your samurai spirit to wither.
That's what we're talking about.
Yeah.
When you start saying, hey, you know what?
I'd rather still just keep fighting, even though you're getting beat because the young
buck is coming up and you're going to get in the train more than you and you got to work and
Yeah.
Hey, you know what? Come time me out then.
You still got to like maintain the spirit.
Yeah.
A lot of times when people get married or they they stop training or whatever and they they
Blame it on the marriage or they blame it on their career.
Yeah.
Something like that is like, ah, you could.
I lost.
Yeah.
You know what I do when people say that people say, I'll say, oh, you know,
someone talking to someone.
No, you don't manage to train a lot.
And I'll be like, oh, I mean, oh, what what happened?
And thus we know I got two kids and you know, I just working a lot.
I was like, oh, yeah.
I got four kids.
Yeah.
I was like, oh, yeah.
And they're driven in their defense.
Everybody's different.
Yeah.
If they have two kids in the four, they're not you and kids aren't here.
So, yes, that's my wife was good.
Yeah.
Oh, that's a bit embarrassing.
It does make it hard.
It totally does.
And it does make it harder.
With the kids and a career and stuff like that.
It's easy.
Yeah.
That's what I was going to say.
It's like.
baby sili it.
It's invalid at the end of the day because you either get your toy or your sunrise.
your summer ice spirit or you didn't and if you didn't then you allowed these things which are true by the way
by your as far as what you're not you but obviously this person is hypothetical person
if they're career or family got in the way you allowed that to happen it's not easy totally not easy
sub to you though at the end of the day I think samurai are never without a sword on their hip
this means of course that an unarmed enemy will arm himself so you got always expect in my mind
always expect that your opponent is gonna be armed business life whatever you're doing always
you can always expect that your opponent is ready I always expect them to be ready next
as a samurai you should take care as to where your feet step as a matter of course
you never want to be off balance in case the unexpected occurs well that's pretty self-explanatory
the amplifying
information says samurai have to keep themselves prepared at all times you respond
they have to be able to react calmly in a situation without any panic boom again does that apply
to everything yes it does no doubt about it samurai who are not aware of the things they should
know are like cats that do not know how to catch mice not aware of things they should know
yeah samurai should be continuously thinking about military manners matters
fail to do this at your peril those that serve in the military should be in a continuous state of
thinking of warfare to be negligent in this will result in failure and defeat
you know I told this I tell us the young military people that I work with
that this is your job this is your profession and you're going to do everything you can to master it
and that means what is being said right here continuously thinking about military manners matters
any samurai who spends too much time playing ball
coat-o-gitar plucking the mouth harp or playing the flute are liable to become a coward
and here it says those in the military should never become overly infatuated with
diversionary games okay now at some point I'd like to get better at guitar but apparently
you know I'm gonna bring things to the world next while a samurai maybe clumsy about some
things the spear the horse and the bow should not be among them I like that
this one is key samurai should make a habit of regularly listening to tales of military combat
and rely on the learning found therein this is a blatant plug for jockel podcast
and here's the amplifying information by listening to such tales regularly it will keep
them fresh in your mind when actual combat arises they will be of benefit boom boom and I've
definitely got that feedback I've gotten all kinds of good feedback about that from guys in the military
that they can relate because I'm telling you the stories that we tell over and over again
their stories that happen there real things yeah fire maneuver there's people acting weird there's
the enemy doing things these things are real and it is definitely helpful the more you I wish I
would have known more when I was in I would have been infinitely better you haven't
enough of focus on it though yeah kind of goes for everything to yeah like because it kind of
keeps your whole like approach to life in that that battle frame you know yeah so everything you
know like gives you different perspectives and I talk about this all the time if if you learn
the arm bar right from the mount you learn it one way but you don't realize man there's there's
infinitely different ways to do it you can get it from the guard you can get it from the bottom
position you can get it from a cross side you can get all the you can get the arm lock from all these
different positions yeah and every time you see it from a different angle you get better at all of
them yeah so every time you see a military situation from a different angle from a leadership
perspective from the ground true perspective from the cold from the hot from the desert from the
mountains you learn something it makes you better at it yeah so so looking at things through that
front you know whatever it may be whether it be military history whatever you're always kind of looking
at things in that way yeah like this guy we call them uncle Jill he's my friend of the family
and how why and oh yeah and he's he was a really good artist but he used to climb trees and
take us just tree climbing I don't really know maybe things actually me talking about it right now
but it was super good fun this guy he'd always be like well there's there's an instinctive of
climbing right p i think humans have an instinctive climb things yeah I'm
excited I don't know it seems like yeah okay and the air it would be weird because he
pulled out that climbing thing he'd be like a bad I could climb up there you know that it's kind
like dang if you kind of have these like looking at things through frames that are that are useful
you know like I think like but it's like man you can figure a lot of things out that you
a lot of people wouldn't figure out you know like I know Viva was like that for sure but like
that's like a good shot how that you know no one's no care that's just a beach or whatever but
I was a young and listed guy and I had a friend that would he would kind of like your friend
like like to climb things this guy would jump off the hook. Uncle Joe would climb things this guy
would jump off the hook and we were on this obstacle course this random obstacle course and he
climbed he would also like to climb but then he got to the top of this thing he was probably
let's call it 18 feet and I'm I slid down the rope and the other guy slid down the rope and
the chief that we were with slid down the rope and I look up and he goes and he's kind of
got like a puzzle look on his face. The jumper the jumper's got like a curious look on his face.
Yeah inquisitive yeah and he says I think I could jump down this 18 feet and I go do it
and the chief goes don't do it and he said I think I could make it and I said do it and the
chief says don't do it and I go 10 bucks and the chief goes shot up Joko don't do it and I go
20 bucks and he goes shot up I'm not as he's saying that the jumper jumped and he made it
just like 18 feet down just landed PLF yeah parachute landing fall. It's like you break the
flying fall down and roll okay yeah it's almost like a judo fall but with your yeah kind of like
it disperses like the way he does he did it it's good man 18 yeah it's good in a good hard
good way you could have gotten her no it would have been your fall yeah all that kind of thing
it would have been yeah I know I know you knew his jumping weakness yeah his addiction to jumping
and you exploited it next samurai should keep in their hearts the fact that they only die once
forgetting this will result in failure samurai who forget this this is so this this one's a
little bit tricky for me to understand samurai should keep in their hearts the fact that they
only die once forgetting this will result in failure and the amplification on this one says
samurai who forget that they can die at any time and in any place could end up in humiliating failure
in other words throwing your body into the river and relying on fate to determine
if you float to the shallows if you love your life too much you will always end in failure so this is
what I found interesting about this one there's an dichotomy here the dichotomy to me is
if if you care too much about being alive then you won't take any risk and you'll be too
scared and you'll that's gonna be bad yeah so that's that we know that that one's bad so we know
we get that one if you love your life too much you will always end in failure maybe not always but
it's gonna definitely play a role you'll be too cautious you won't take any risk you'll be scared
that one's gonna be you'll hesitate yeah so we get that one the keeping your hearts that you'll only
die once okay so that means to me okay so you can die at any time I'm gonna make it worth it
in my mind make it dope yeah make it dope okay and then this whole thing about okay we read it
board forward throwing your body into the river and relying on fate to determine if you float
to the shallows I don't know to me that could be taken two ways and I think they're both okay
number one is like hey don't just throw just just jump don't just jump into the river and see
and let fate decide if you're gonna make it I don't know you prepare and you train and you're ready
the other way it could be taken is you know what you can't control everything you got to go
jump into the river and if you if you're meant to make it you're gonna make it even one of those
can possibly set your mind to be using what I mean you've heard me talk about here in a
ten way the warrior kid right yeah way the warrior kid what happens you prepare everything you
can but they eventually got to jump and see if the water the current takes you to the shallow water again
that's the way it's got to be yeah so that's the way I took that one yeah I read a lot into that one
I think the first one just because the other one would would add kind of additional
like requirement required explanation like your story is you agree with preparing I think yeah
yeah I agree with preparing I think the of the two that you just said the first one I think makes
more sense to me that that's what he meant so you're you're thinking that he meant
to prepare the best of your ability yeah exactly like he like it's kind of like you only have one
life and if you're gonna die make it legit don't be dying trying to cross the river you better die
doing something be it I mean okay I think there's one more little addition that I believe that
Eric actually added on here yeah this is his note it says the line about throwing your bond into
the river relying on fate to determine if you float in the shallow is very famous it's not
that famous because I Google it back couldn't find it now he says enter battle fleek
completely committed and perhaps you will emerge alive at the end I think that makes some sense for me
prepare the best of your ability yeah be fully committed and then don't worry about what the
end's gonna come because you can't control everything I think we're good I think okay now this one
I had to I had to dig on this one a little bit too samurai study a great many things however the
single focus of their learning is death and then the the the amplifying information here
is while samurai do intensive training and study a variety of topics what it all boils down to
is seeking death so that that kind of that one I will I tried to figure out what that meant
or at least what it means to me and I think to to the most positive way I could
because seeking death right are you really seeking death is that what you're trying to do?
Well no if you're you're not helping the cause if you're seeking death right you don't want to die
that's not our goal it's an occurrence that could happen and matter fact that's gonna happen all of us
but the way I look at it is what we're trying to learn we're trying to understand
and master his death and the fear of death if we can get over that little little hurdle right then
you've mastered that and once you're actually saying I'm going forward don't prepare it
then we're good or could be also just like just you know as far as seeking challenges go you want
to seek one challenge and you want to seek a bigger challenge yeah but he says seeking death bro
yeah so you're pursuing the ultimate challenge that beats you and I like that
true what you have a point break come on yes point yes there you go where you know
boaty he's looking for the the 50 year storm you remember the same thing so he's like I'm
going to be there and all this stuff he's always trying to push the limit all these things
bankruptreats guy I mean all this stuff and you know find the 50 year storm no is it 100%
knows it in fact I was kind of like his escape from the law catch one of those ways
dies everyone knew it did he really die or was there sequel where you lived he died it was all
kind of I guess not that you mentioned it first there's room first he click exactly everybody was
but then they make it people they write it the same movie yeah did you see that one no not bad
I see what they're doing there you know a little bit too like you could tell they're trying
target maybe some teenagers or something like that but not bad sat through it glad it wasn't
a waste of time you know some things all right this one again had to had to had to
dig a little deeper on this one if you were to ask what what is it that concerns a samurai
the answer is I want to live I want to live okay so to break that down a little bit I
look at the word concerns and what concerns means is worries or troubles it's not yeah I don't think
they're using them more like oh that that concerns me yeah like like it's not saying hey what what
concerns me or what I'm thinking about it's what I'm worried about what I'm worried about is someone
that's saying I want to live I want to live yeah that's what they're worried about because
someone that's saying I want to live and I think you can apply this to a lot of stuff let's
take negotiation right you get negotiation with somebody if you're saying I want to win this deal I
want to steal I want to you're out of position of weakness yeah yeah so even in business you can't
have the position if I want to live I want to live I want to live I want to score this deal
I want to make I want to get this deal done like no if you're actually negotiating you need to be
able to walk away from the deal and say no we're done I'm out strangely they say the same thing
about picking up girls same thing yes if you're all I hope I get this girl I hope get this girl that
girl doesn't want to be with a guy that's just British red dude yeah the amplification here
says an answer to the question what do samurai worry about the answer is having the desire to
extend their own life is something worth regretting samurai who value their own lives are not worth
a far thing yeah so we've got that's I think you need to be able to set aside that
well I think it applies to everything I think so yeah if you're so concerned like in
jiu jitsu if you're just totally concerned about winning and not tapping out yeah you're not going to learn
yeah and and even worse you're not going to compete you're not even rolling that's going to do well yeah
and you're so apprehensive and yeah yeah to play so I sure sure here's a good one it is important to
understand that should the mirror in a samurai's heart be unclouded then the opponent will be clearly
reflected in it good one amplification any samurai whose will is firm can be described as having
a mind that is unclouded so if your will is firm think about that if your will is firm you can be
described as having a mind that is unclouded in such a state the strength of weakness of the opponent
will be perfectly reflected next samurai cast off thoughts of both life and death their mind is set
unmoving forward amplification samurai do not dwell even for a moment on whether they live or die
fulfilling their mission requires samurai to advance it is what they do best what they were made for
yeah that is I think that that one breaks down to
you being able to clear your mind on what happened the last go around right not worried about
the future not worried about the black one you're doing something like if you're competing
you make a mistake you have to put that out of your brain completely yeah and you need to
okay the mistake happened or you did something great you can't jump up and now to be all happy about
that you need to just clear your mind and keep the mind empty yeah you can't get freaked out about
the next shot or the last shot yeah you we learn that in shooting like this is something you see
all the time when we're shooting we do a little basically when you're shooting in the teams everything
is a competition and you'd see a guy you're shooting ahead plates and they'd have six
head plates in a row what's the steel plate about the size of a head and you got a shoot
a minute and we shoot it you instantly know if you hit a risk because it was ping ping ping ping ping
mm and if you see a guy that can't put the last one out of their head you know it's
ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping
mag change it's it's bad yeah a guy gets really good he'll miss and just he'll dismiss and he
doesn't even think about it you're you're ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping ping
you just yeah no no factor yeah it's it is the proverbial choking you know like why is this
good choking at the end on the ceiling it before you can train your mind to do that you can train
your mind to do that so where you're just and actually when I'd be shooting a lot I could get to that
point and then if I'm not shooting a bunch I would lose that and I'm gonna be like to ping
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
if you're shooting regularly you get that you get past that and then older you get the more you
do it the more you can just say you don't don't care you know what a phrase would would always work
with me when someone like you've got a coach or something where you know in football you'd have
this where you're like you'd be winning the whole game mm-hmm you know and in the fourth quarter
it's like oh my god we just let's run out the clock or I don't you have that feeling
and guys at choke a lot of time and that's not to mention the other teams thinking the exact
opposite we got nothing lose we're gonna hit him we're gonna take risks we're gonna do all
you know so that's why guys can win or teams can win at the last minute even though they've been
getting their ass kicked old game um fights kind of like that too but I don't know if I just seem
to have like more of a wheel I don't know for some reason but either way either way I don't know
but the phrase I would always help me is if someone would just put your might to end say finish
strong just say finish strong but like yeah it's almost like they're gonna say punch it through
or something you know something like that that indicates don't let up at the end mentally you know
just go just keep pushing the way you but that is a little bit different then getting distracted by
what just happened yeah but because they say yeah it is a little bit different but in it's like
what's your critical role when you played football what was it you were trying to do each play
were you weren't you a receiver yeah okay so let's say you missed their catch that you should
cut off you had to be able to put that out of your head right so it's just a mental state
where it's like finished strong it's finished strong in your mind you know so yeah don't worry
about your introduce it to get this all the time man when I'd win a match and then I'd win another
one you know you gotta win like matches till the final after two matches I just start feeling this
pressure like it's almost like one way my two match win streak is about to come to an end it's a
little like the pressure and then you win one more and then the pressure is even on more
is weird it's like I wish I was done it is weird oh but if someone would say something along
the lines of finished strong it would just cure the whole thing because you're thinking about all
these things that mentally throw you off if I don't know the pressure would say if you could
somebody say something to you that would make you freak out even more yeah oh yeah like what
would it freak out more if someone said oh you got this or if someone says hey at least you made
it this far would you then back off but because when you're dealing with kids it would you know
like I mean like I got kids you got kids too but you know when you got kids that are doing something
competitive yeah like you did you do a wrestling and let's say they're winning and and you could tell
them hey you've done good so far go out there and have fun which is cool yeah or you could say
hey you need to focus more now but because these people are gonna be getting tougher yeah
both of those to me with throw me up because when you say just relax you've made it this far that
tells them that it's okay it did not to be to check out you know so it depends on what their
state of mind is to go into that that comment or take into the situation where you say
come to the time I feel like I want to tell people either people I'm coaching well no I
shouldn't say that when I want to tell my kids relax go out there have fun go out there have a good
time yeah because I think that is easier on their brains and and to what your point was earlier
when people let loose and they they don't feel the pressure they tend to perform better yeah
yeah I agree with that fully but if it's like if that's like kind of the underlying attitude like
relax have fun regardless of what Matt first match last finals match whatever then yes I think so
but if it's like come on you you got this will you can do this you can do this and then right when
it gets to the final then you say okay yeah you need this far so it's like your side that's bad I think
he can be bad you know how they take it but if they take it like I didn't say relax yeah I said go
out there and have I go out there and do what you do I say that a lot okay so if you say you made it this far
MMA find to be like hey do what you do that's good to say if someone told me that go do what you
do that would really be in the garden go do what you do yeah that's good stuff to say to me
but anything to put pressure on me like if you do this you win like you know like one more
match and that's it no but I'll tell you what's interesting like with coaching MMA if you would
get a guy and get it into a guy's head do not get taken down and they'd go in there without you
you'd be really hard to take that person down yeah and when and you'd say it soon if you get taken
down it's soon before you even get on the ground you get back up you get that people with that
mind that going and it'd be really hard for someone to take them down and hold them up because they can panic it
yeah maybe basically pick up get you know yeah so interesting here's a good one
and this is actually the last one fittingly not engaging in any form of study will cause your
mind to wander this will result in your spirit becoming unfocused then the amplification there is
nothing wrong with daydreaming but if you study your spirit will become focused on and shape
to deal with a certain thing that shape will then become lost in turn there is a song that
goes the drifting and becoming lost is what the mind does it becomes your spirit the mind of your
spirit do not allow your mind to do this and yeah I think that that's that's something that we
actually talk about all the time in fact that may be the very purpose of me doing everything that we do
which is you know studying and learning and to go back to the question that that Eric the
translator posed to me can any of the rules in this book apply to modern warfare as I said not only
do they apply to modern warfare they apply to life and the thing is there's nothing really new here
right just like an arm lock there's nothing really new here but that doesn't mean that there's
nothing really new here there's always something new we sure we've heard these lessons before right
we've heard them from dick winners we've heard them from Bob Hoffman we've heard them from general
patent and hack worth and we heard them from wooden leg and I said this on the first podcast that we did
the first podcast that we did I said you know what to do you know to be balanced
and you know to work out and you know not to be gluttonous with food and you know you should
sleep late and you know you should keep things clean and organized and you know that your struggles
now will be rewarded in the future so you must endure indoor indoor the hardship indoor the suffering
indoor the pain of discipline indoor the pain of discipline so that in the future you can have
the reward and we know what that reward is the reward for discipline is freedom
and I think that is all I've got for tonight so echo speaking of rewards and freedom and trying to
get better do you have any suggestions on maybe some ways to get better for people
sure ways that might also at the same time simultaneously support this podcast if people want to
sure do something like that they want to also I think it is important and beneficial to add that
you know when you endure the suffering pain that's metaphor for the most part sometimes it's
real pain oh yeah and suffering real real but you do that enough and you get used to it
and to the point where you kind of like require it in a way like you kind of want to like you know
how are you still going like you know like a strict diet and I'd be hungry a lot but at the
same time the diet would be really effective with a good workout program and then so when I go off
the program you kind of you know you feel kind of almost like for lack of better term like toxic like
or just a sack of you know you almost I kind of miss that hunger and the you know the
because you kind of associate the hunger that you always have with like being in good shape and
and like a proper point it kind of like that's an example of like how it can be you know you know
like yeah no that's good you're eating a lot I don't know it's weird you don't even have to
amplify you do it like when you're on the program yeah kind of feels good that you're on the
program you're suffering for sure there's something called unquote suffering there but they feel good
and especially when you think about the opposite of that which is when you're off the program
yes and you feel like a wrap yeah and yeah what do you do to make yourself feel better what do you
do instead of going on the program you said you go to the you go to the sleeve orios yeah that's
the answer yeah because that's like that's the that's the wrong answer yeah that's the good that's the
instant gratification yeah right that's the opposite of struggling now yeah you're you're you're
you're you're not enduring now you're not facing the pain of discipline now you're looking for
a short term rewards so that's why that's why I said it said in the book I said in the book
the field manual right like when you're on the path it's it's easier to stay on the path I
when you fall off the path yeah yeah people people just get they go the downward spiral yeah that's
like you fall for the trick and this I have mentioned this as a trick you're my trick so like you
like that you're getting it is friends you know when you you fall off the path you say and when you
feel like crap because you're off the program and the fact that you're off the program aside from just
your physical physicality you feel like crap so you got to alleviate that feeling so you go to
something that's gonna give you pleasure but forget what wrong pleasure you and short term when you
need it long term you know so that's what you do that is a good a good thing I do that when
let's say don't feel I've been traveling been eating crap the way to get back on
the way to feel good again is just to hit yourself I mean get some screw get some do good
can have a good couple base like uh you know in the in the field menu I've got these various
workouts and there's some of those in there that are just core not core as an abs because we call it
but but core programs that are fundamental yeah and I kind of know where I'm at on them and even
if I'm not gonna go in there do a record performance it'll put me back on track it'll make it'll
it'll clean my system mentally and physically yeah and that's good probably stick to this thing where
you know if you're you have a girlfriend you get in a fight or something like that or they break
up with you whatever you know something that makes you in a bad mood for whatever it's in
they should go to the gym and do like shoulders or chest workouts something that would give like a
really really hard painful pump you know that kind like I don't know 12 15 reps like a minute in
between like eight sets of those massively pumped for some reason I just feel way better that's the
same thing that's what I'm talking about yeah the way if you can give yourself for me you got your
you got some workouts that are just fundamental I don't know what there's their probably a name for like
medicine yeah medicine yeah medicine some medicine workouts you got to have some of those medicine
workouts that just put you back on the path yeah and then you know what do you fast 24 hours
that's bold right there yeah 24 hours you feel you feel good I'm telling you feel good
yeah I'll do like 15 now actually pretty often too and you're right strangely you're right
I just read another article some of the pages I read two articles because people people tweet
them to me yeah one of them was about the intermittent fasting we guess what it's good for you
and then the other one was about this whole depletion of will is I'll not true yeah well the I think
why I was right the scientists were wrong what they were saying I think with what you're saying
I think there's like a slide no no no no no no so you're saying it's straight up wrong what
there's no no there's I just read an article today that is wrong that this idea of the depletion
of you know if you if you have to resist this chocolate chip cookie then within 20 minutes you won't
be able to resist the cake because you just can't resist that much yeah it's a lie it's then
there's proving now that it's not true yeah not true yeah I feel like that's a psychological
state so I might vary from individual but what I'm saying is if you if you're on the program
yeah and you had some medicine in the morning you I'm telling you that it's easier to hold the
line the more you hold the line it easier is to hold the line that's true yeah that's the truth
you get some speaking of holding the holding the line and the truth by the way
chocolate some supplements jocos supplements cruel oil the main one and joint warfare so
joint warfare glucosamine and conjroitin and curcumin which is the other there's it's not just glucosamine
and conjroitin yeah this curcumin yes what is that it's more goodness for the joints
some stuff to wage warfare against joint inflammation pain yeah so and that's a big deal
because again I'm gonna say I said it before but I think this is critical I mean you know I'm sure
there's like supplements that help you build your muscles if you're into building my I'm sure
there is but really if you can maintain your joints especially if you're due to pushing weights any kind
of like so I like know that dynamic movement yeah you know because you joints take those that
that front and they degenerate over time oh they do because that would tap me to you
I'm over here not degenerating I'm on joint warfare you're in a state of generating huh yeah
I don't know I dig it and this is one of the cruel oil thing I'm not embarrassed because it's kind of
funny story I might spend some little bit it's not funny funny but it is that I was like
a girl oh oh to my father and yeah I'm like over here pushing cruel oil like in life I mean you know
Brian his name is Brian and remember we went to the retreat in Maine from Brian the black belt
they came I knew him sure so I kind of keep contact with him he's like hey do you have any like
what's the cool supplements or whatever I was like right you know and I sent him some mine and he was
I didn't get the report back down like the other day but nonetheless in life I'm straight up pushing
it like you tell Greg about it all the time I don't think I don't think he'll maybe I get him son
I don't know but it's like you know look and you get benefits for something yeah and then you're
like pushing it on other people some people do it with um bro goddingly
Pikachu sure just various things you know books music why do we do that with music like if you
you don't like my you know like I'll be like hey listen to this song it's the best song and then
like you don't like it and I'm actually mad at you or you're mad at me because you don't like it
yeah because I just don't like your music and I know grab well I think we kind of
created to our identity in a way this kind of what I do with cruel oil part of my identity
you know it's part of my joints identity I can tell you that and joint warfare good ones also
await I didn't tell you where you can get this joint warfare and super cruel
origin main dot com click on the top of the labs actually it's on the front page too it's on
jockel store too by the way jockel store dot com but yeah this is where you can get it if you want it
if you want it a lot of people been asking for subscription like a recurring yes or you can get it
everyone that's what it should be I know I know we'll get it set up yeah you could get to the last
three pills and of course even six you take the three like dang only have three left I got to take
this tomorrow yeah after tomorrow you know two-day shipping unless you got overnight shipping
situation yeah there's just you don't want to do that to yourself no you don't you actually
for real don't you get that going on yes good idea thank you jocco and Pete also there's some good
geese on there jocco is a geek jocco is a rashguard we'll start with that american hands I've worn it
many times can I talk about 19% improvement in performance I got tapped out by Andy so so far no
got tapped out by you too maybe we're still out of no any different the normal right yeah so
so but but did I could I could have resist 19 I'm just saying the juice do out I can't come
from really yeah but but if you remember because you remember I was wearing one of our rashguards
small action big green yeah and I kind of got got after the right and so really in theory you're
19 plus and mining 19 plus kind of cancelled itself okay really but I felt like maybe if you got 19
I felt like that day I had like 20% you're bringing it like yeah 26 because you weren't
typically don't wear that right you don't really wear a rashguards you're much you weren't happy
on the final guillotine no I think it was a coper you literally said I saw that coming yeah
and that was one of those comments that was meant to kind of deflate my victory
you know like you saw it coming and it was so obvious and it was just like you I just got lucky
and blah blah and I just I just said yeah definitely I'm really telegram about what I didn't say
you got I can't believe how pathetic it was yeah this and you I mean to give you a breakdown
of your guillotine your guillotine cobra which I think is even more so than the guillotine
like you have such a good way to like get it you're one of those guys that like you're probably
walking like right now you're thinking about guillotine right now that's what I think that's what
it feels a lot so it's like when you go for it it just lands perfectly it's not the kind where you
know oh no just grab it no no no no just so it's gotten to the point over literally like what
like almost a decade of training with you and that thing getting sunk in that efficiently on
my own name you're not that far from the truth it's like my body like knows like hey we've been
here before this one my brain is almost like I can feel my brain as a separate entity tell
my body sometimes if I get you in a guillotine and you go crazy trying to defend it and then like
and you'll get out and the next one I'll be like yeah it's going down yeah it's like man I don't
want that beef again because what what I what I had to do to get out of that first one is like
bro I can't do something about it yeah it's not worth it that's exactly what it is and I think
that's how my whole body reacts when I feel it gets sunk in it's kind of common man this again
we've been down this road same outcome you know my body is used to that outcome so it just kind of
accommodates it that's what it feels like and I think that's part of what I meant but it's like I
saw that coming I think your body is okay with me getting you I think so too I don't like the fact
that it's like that I don't like I think I think talking about it might help or it might
straight up not yeah rash guards geese made in America which is awesome so that's awesome
yeah everyone should know that and they make them like make them yes yes they don't like
shipping some stuff and then hey guys okay are we starting to make yeah even though it's been you know
yeah they make or make it from the thread and the ghee the ghee is good that's the video's coming out
yeah it's out the origin that's out the video Megan like I'm making confused with the
Amanda by the way hold on story I won't go into it right now nonetheless videos out
making made the video it's a good one actually you kind of made the video to you right now what
listen they make anything nonetheless joccus geese out other geese on origin all good I got two
other ones so three origin geese all together me it's only geese all everywhere I think
unless someone else can make their own material in America and you know provide the same
everything then hey maybe maybe not but just saying as of right now that's how it is also
no kettlebells right I'm gonna keep you updated on my kettlebell situation I'm addicted to
I'm addicted to them collecting and doing them so I got one more that's the Cyclops from on it
the designer one no no what do you call it the regulation regular ones none of those anyway Cyclops
I think is 40 something pounds I only got one I'm getting out of joke with that one too anyway
the good thing about these is they are balanced because a lot of times and from what I here I
don't know but from what I hear like a lot of the design ones they're not balanced
you know these are balanced and that's the ones I use and I'm addicted to the workout
starts low with these when you do it though are you still doing a lot of kettlebells yeah I do
decent amount of kettlebells yeah doing some Turkish get-ups the other day yeah right I didn't get that
I thought I was gonna get really into Turkish get-ups but I did a few times and just you didn't it didn't stick you
know you know you know understand stuff just sticks even though it's cool you know what it was I did it
with the 35 pound one then I did it with the 54 pound one and I was like 10 this is a good exercise
hard and then I went online to look up exercises and then there's ones with guys doing it with
185 pounds like doing it and maybe maybe I just got discouraged I got encouraged do I see that oh yeah
you take it it's like a challenge yeah yeah maybe my whole outlook is different
anyway when you do these kettlebells if you want the cool ones to me kettlebells or dope but if you
want them extra dope you go to on it dot com slash jockel get your kettlebells there just look at them
they got light ones everyone's I say start light but hey whatever your level is you know get them
also when you get your copy of what is the the translated hundred rules of war yes we get this again
yeah which I'm pronouncing it all sorry yeah see and that's really great and okay so I put these
books all these books if you didn't already I'm going to say again I put all the books on our website
jockepotcast.com and this is for this very reason jockeot has no how to pronounce some of this stuff
no especially the Japanese stuff you know you come to me for help I help it's not a smooth
process is what I'm saying so I tried to smooth out a little bit jockepotcast.com on the
tops his books from the episode click on there look this episode what one a one boom from episode
one a one a hundred rules of war even though there's only ninety seven of them and if you want to
get some other book you can still click through yeah and support the podcast yeah if you buy
a book that is completely off of what we would normally talk about yeah like for like what I don't
know something that's not about war the lion the witch in the wardrobe yeah if you go to buy that book
you can just click it's still supports the podcast doesn't have to be the but when you buy it yeah
just click and you're not buying a book even if you're buying deltibs golf clubs duct tape lawn more
grocery bag holders even though I don't recommend that stuff if you carry grocery bags you
carry them with your hands both hands all around to buy the way anyway yeah click through there
so on the website jockepotcast.com good way to support also subscribe to the podcast if you haven't
already on iTunes to just stitch your google play Spotify is that a
no I don't you spot a fact Spotify is not you can't get I don't I don't think you can get it
but there's a bunch any podcasting platform I don't think Spotify is one of them we had a request
for Spotify because then you could play it on Alexa but I can you can play it on Alexa right now
you can say Alexa play the latest jockel podcast actually in not to split here is what it's
called amazon echo Alexa's just the name you say yeah but Alexa's what you say yeah so that's what I said
no you said you can get it on Alexa oh okay technically on the difference I just want us to go in
correct and insane and doing the right thing that's all nonetheless subscribe if you haven't already
is it's supposed to put it this way I'm not saying subscribe I'm saying subscribing is a good way to support
also on youtube subscribe to the youtube channel put some videos on there excerpts not as many excerpts as
I did last week this week because I got I learned this new video thing we talked about earlier I won't
go into it but I want it's really technical but I wound up getting obsessed with it so like for
I think it was like 11 hours a day for three days I'm making this clip that's like three seconds long
today so I didn't get to the excerpts is what I'm saying but as a result I think there's I think
the next video that it releases gonna have some new things to it might be something that only I'm noticing
maybe maybe not but nonetheless that's gonna be how it is either way point there is subscribe to youtube
it's a good way to support yeah I want to do a youtube live figure how to do that
yeah that's not that hard so let's do it just a youtube live random yeah like a facebook live
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah because I think it'd be cool to be stored on youtube instead of
stored on facebook right yeah I think it's just the matter of it's it doesn't matter ultimately it's
just a video yeah but if it's if it's stored on on youtube people can go back and be reading it
and whatever and well I started watching it if it's on facebook it's way buried in some random
yeah yeah yeah your your feet yeah what do you call it yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah time line whatever
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah nonetheless youtube does it good on to subscribe
got some other videos aside from just the video version of this podcast that's the good that's the
main reason I think to subscribe if you're interested in that kind of stuff and you can sign
you know you can get a notification if you don't you don't need it but you can go on also
joc was a store it's called jocl store jocl store dot com got some new stuff under straight up
rash guards who these are up I know I've been saying it but they're up though is one of my
hats got some hats I am putting beanies on there oh yes that's good yes yeah okay I hope
they're thick beanies they're regular I didn't know there's nothing I've been you know doing some
research this is a good beany okay from all I kind of extrapolated all the you know they advice
online and these are the good ones also some new rash guards k the new rashguard is
a rashguard that says small action on one side big reaction on the other side
when I work for the first time a healing tailor said he didn't know he didn't know the layers
but he saw it and he was like the essence of jiu jitsu because it is right just my action
big reactions what we're hoping for yeah it's just in killing jiu dokeling yeah he knew he knows about the
way also some women stuff on there which is cool I think some patches on there sure it's I'm
gonna have a new shirt coming out I don't have a new shirt you have a new shirt coming out
do I know what it is nope interesting not yet a lot of times I'll get input from the online
people from the people and I kind of you know every most of the time it's like one off things you
know like oh I heard jocos say this one thing this is one time back then I really liked it
we would make a great shirt kind of thing and I'm although they're usually right a lot of times
and they can maybe that might not translate into your real picky and choosey is what I'm here
yeah put it this way a lot of people after hitting me with it okay and this is one of those
I have actually mentioned it before it's called back to the book I think it's coming out good
anyway that one's coming out to jocob store jocob store dot com take a look at this stuff on there
if you see something you like get something also psychological warfare on all of our this
is what psychological warfare is on all of our journeys I'm going back to journeys
someone requested something the other day and it was actually better than campaign or journey
but I forget what it was so it's better just not that much better no it's better but I can't remember
I see a lot of stuff that's true you do see a lot of stuff well on our campaign against weakness journey
everyone's while we're running to roadblocks points of weakness hopefully less than more
more times than not we don't we don't we don't we don't we don't we don't we don't we don't we don't
very clear hopefully not very often but one the unfricquint time comes where you run into those
weaknesses you said unfricquint time but it's cool we know what you mean bro the not frequent
yeah the rare time that you run into weaknesses do not worry because psychological warfare is an
album with tracks that helps you right through that most situations pretty much all situations really
weak and up early skipping workouts procrastination staying on the program diet why is all this
stuff a lot of stuff a bunch of tracks on there and it's jockel telling you pragmatically ways that you can
practice with practical right practical meaning you can practice these things it's not just some
philosophical slash inspirational stuff I would say do yeah it's more due practical it's kind of the
teamwork for it but nonetheless practical advice coming directly from jockel directly into your ear
on why you shouldn't give in to these weaknesses it's like a little spot in your campaign that's
what psychological warfare is it's a good one it's a real good one another's that is a number one
spoken word albums on iTunes for about nine months and they finally got beaten out by another album
it was read on field manual which is people keep asking me it's available as an album with
tracks on iTunes Amazon music google play on other MP3 platforms also on Amazon you can get jockel
white tea what's good about jockel white tea is if you drink jockel white tea you are guaranteed
100% to be able to deadlift 8000 pounds minimum minimum you know okay what's your body weight
125 cool 8000 pound deadlift so the guarantee like that we're looking pretty good try it out
there's some books way the warrior kid by the way just finished way the warrior kid book number two
what the whole thing or the draft the draft what I mean there's gonna be some edits yeah the story is completely
done it's a good story by my nephew read it and he said it's better than the first one that's saying a lot
because I was the second one and that's me a little message and you know this message said hey uncle
jockel that's what it said and he's he's in fifth grade so it's pretty accurate assessment we're assuming
from him could he study but the book number one is out right now and it is the book that you wish
you had when you were a kid I wish I had when I was a kid who didn't have no one had had written it yet
had learned the lessons so if you want to give a kid a better life get in this book also extreme
ownership check it out new addition is coming out matter fact let me rephrase that new addition
is out it is available right now it has a new forward in it where we talk about kind of what we've
seen since the book came out it has color pictures in it ooh dude it has echo's name in it why is
echo's name in it echo's name is isn't it because we took Q&A from the podcast about leadership
and put the really important questions and answers in there so you can refer back to them without
having to go through 101 podcasts and find the one question that you want to get now now you can
find it in the book also it's got a new cover on it which is black more cool and you know because
the Q&A is from you I kind of need to thank everyone because this book is not just
life and me anymore now it's life and be an echo and everyone that asks questions and
help with the podcast by asking questions so thanks to you all for the new version of our new book
also the discipline equals freedom field manual is now available worldwide and if you've got
questions this book has answers if you're wondering what work out should I do what Marshall
Aren't should I train in how do I know what a good GGG to gym is what should I eat what should I do
and I'm injured what should I do if I don't feel like working out what should I do something bad
happens how should I overcome failure if you got those kind of questions this book has the answers
discipline equals freedom field manual get it for yourself and get it for anyone else that might
want answers to these questions the book is not normal it's not normal I know it's not normal
because you know why I'm not normal no the book is it's black and the book it only has a black
cover it has black pages as well so some people don't like that and you know what I say
don't read it yeah if you don't if you don't want to read that cool don't read it and as I said
if you want to get the book on audio it is not on audible it is on MP3 as now with traction
get it through iTunes Amazon music and google play that way you can listen to it as an album with
tracks this is a book that you don't sit there it's not a story it's not a story you might want to
listen to one section of it at a different time you might be saying hey I need to listen to a section
about destroyer mode right how do I get into destroyer mode one day you might want to read
about the fear of failure you listen to the fear of failure one day you might need to hear sugar
coated lies one day you might want to hear about the warpath so when you have it as an album
with tracks you can listen to it whatever or you want you can set it as your alarm you can
put it in your playlist that kind of thing which you can't do with a lame audible book
so that's that also if you like the leadership principles that we talk about on this podcast and
you want to get them for your team or business we have a leadership and management consulting company
it's the premier leadership and management consulting company did I say that yes I did
echelon front me life jpe Dave Burke if you want us to come and work with your company
and get your leadership aligned and get your leadership into destroyer mode email info
echelon front dot com and if you have any more questions or answers for us or something that
you want to tell us you can find us up on the interwebs on Twitter on Instagram and on the
face she ball echelon is at echelon Charles and I am at jacco winlink and to the soldiers sailors
airman and marine tour overseas right now defending our nation and our freedom thank you for your
sacrifice and to the families of those men and women thanks for supporting your warriors
while they are deployed that is one of the hardest jobs in the world and thank you for doing it
and to the police law enforcement firefighters paramedics and other first responders thank you for
protecting us here at home you do not get thanked enough I'm thanking you right now
and for the rest of you out there maneuvering through life trying to get the upper hand on the
enemy or the competitor or trying to get the upper hand and get control of yourself
you know what to do you know what action to take you know how to win
so get out there and get after it and so until next time this is echo and jacco out